BIND A HOST — add a machine without typing anything

Adding a host used to mean a hostname, a user, and a pasted key. Now press
+ HOST and the sheet opens on a new BIND road (MANUAL is the old form, one
tap away). A companion CLI runs on the machine you want to add, and the app's
job is to notice it and confirm.

The BIND pane hands you the install lines with COPY buttons — paste them into
a terminal on that machine:
  brew install multiplex-term/tap/mpx                        # macOS or Linux
  curl -fsSL https://multiplexterm.dev/install-mpx-cli | sh  # macOS or Linux
  mpx bind

Then try any of these:

1. LOCAL NETWORK (works on Vision Pro — no camera needed)
   Leave `mpx bind` running and watch the ASKING TO BIND section. The machine
   appears there on its own, showing its user, address, and SSH fingerprint —
   check those against the terminal. Type the 6-digit PIN the terminal
   printed, press ENROLL, answer [Y/n] on the machine, and the host lands on
   the deck already probing.

2. SCAN THE QR (iPhone/iPad)
   Same pane, SOMEWHERE ELSE → SCAN QR, pointed at the code in the terminal.

3. PASTE (any device, including Vision Pro)
   Run it as `mpx bind --copy` — copying is opt-in now, since the code is
   credential-grade and Universal Clipboard would spread it to every device
   you're signed in to. The SOMEWHERE ELSE section shows that exact command
   with a COPY button. Over SSH the CLI uses OSC 52, so the code lands on
   your *local* terminal's clipboard and Universal Clipboard carries it to
   your device; then press Paste.

4. A MACHINE THAT ISN'T ON YOUR NETWORK (VPS, firewalled box)
   Run `mpx bind --offline` and scan/paste. Multiplex imports it, connects,
   and then quietly replaces that key with one it generates itself.

5. KEY PASSPHRASE (the section right below ASKING TO BIND)
   Optional, and it works for every road above: type one before you bind
   and the SSH key Multiplex stores for that machine is generated sealed
   with it — the same encrypted key format ssh-keygen produces. The
   passphrase is saved into the host's settings, so the host connects
   immediately and keeps working; open Host Settings to see or clear it.
   Clear it and the wall asks with an UNLOCK button the next time the key
   is needed. Leave the field empty and nothing changes from before.

Worth checking:
- Tap a multiplex://b/ link outside the app (mpx bind prints one — put it in
  Notes/Messages and tap it). The app must open Add Host on the BIND pane
  with that machine listed and waiting for your ENROLL — a link must never
  bind by itself.
- Press Ctrl-C on the machine while its row is showing under ASKING TO BIND.
  The row should disappear within a few seconds — it should never sit there
  waiting for a PIN that nothing is listening for. (This needs the current
  mpx; older builds left the row behind.)
- The deck itself has no bind chrome at all — no BIND chip, nothing above
  your fleet. The whole flow lives in that one sheet. Tell us if you miss
  a machine announcing itself while you're just looking at the wall.
- Multiplex only listens for machines while the BIND pane is open, so the
  local-network permission prompt should never appear until you ask for it.
- Your device's own key is what gets installed — no private key ever leaves
  the device on the normal path. `mpx unbind --list` shows exactly what was
  enrolled; `mpx unbind <id>` removes it.
- A bound host records the machine's SSH fingerprints as it binds.
- Wrong PIN three times must kill the offer (run `mpx bind` again).
- On the free tier, binding still respects the two-host limit — you should
  see the Pro paywall instead of a key being installed.
- Declining in the terminal must leave your authorized_keys untouched.
- A host bound with a KEY PASSPHRASE must connect right away and survive a
  relaunch without asking anything; its Host Settings must show the
  passphrase saved. For an offline bind, the machine keeps the id the bind
  installed (`mpx unbind --list`) — a passphrase-sealed key is never
  swapped out.
- Host Settings (editing a host you already have) should show no BIND bar.

VIEWPORT — open a page from the terminal, inside Multiplex

Long-press a URL printed in any pane (tap also works where the remote
isn't tracking the mouse). The link sheet now shows a REACH row saying
which network the address lives on, plus a ⌗ VIEWPORT chip. Confirming
docks the page as a ⌗ tab right beside the session that printed it —
it moves like any tab: context-menu it to split into its own window
beside the terminal, MERGE to bring it back, and the live page rides
along without reloading.

The localhost trick: a pane runs on the host, so http://localhost:5173
printed there is the HOST's localhost, not your device's. The chip
becomes ⌗ VIA <HOST> and the sheet shows the rewritten address (the one
your device already reaches the host by). It works when the dev server
listens beyond loopback — vite --host, next -H 0.0.0.0.

Worth checking:
- Print a dev server's Network: URL (LAN address) in a pane, long-press,
  confirm — the page should render in the ⌗ tab with the address and a
  LAN tag in the rail below it.
- The localhost line instead: chip reads ⌗ VIA <your host>, and with the
  server on --host the page must still load.
- Split the ⌗ tab to its own window (context menu on the tab cell), put
  it beside the terminal, save a file, reload — the dev loop with both
  visible. Merge it back; the page must not reload either way.
- Quit and relaunch Multiplex: terminals come back, viewport tabs must
  NOT — a page is summoned, not restored.
- A page linking to mailto: shows the same confirmation sheet; multiplex://
  and file: links inside the page must go nowhere.
- SYSTEM in the rail hands the page to Safari; CLOSE ends the tab. The
  ⌗ tab cell carries no red dot — only shells wear the tally.
- iPhone: the viewport stays a docked tab in the shell (no windows there).
- Tap the address in the rail: an ADDRESS bar opens at the top (above the
  keyboard) — type host:port or a full URL and GO. Bare LAN addresses get
  http://, names get https://, and localhost still means the host (same
  rewrite). file: or javascript: input must be refused with WEB ADDRESSES
  ONLY, and the ⌗ tab label should follow wherever you navigate.
- Long-press the address: COPY ADDRESS and CLEAR BROWSING DATA… live
  there. Clearing asks first (it wipes cookies/caches/site storage for
  every viewport page), then reloads the page signed out — sign into a
  dev server, clear, and the login must be gone.
- Vision Pro: URLs in terminal output now glow when you look at them —
  and a pinch on a glowing link opens the same confirmation sheet a long
  press does (never the page directly). File paths and plain prose must
  never glow, links under your gaze in a build log should light within a
  second of printing, and scrolling/pane-switching over a link must keep
  working exactly as before.

FILE VIEWER — the host's files and git diffs, beside the terminal

Two ways in. Long-press a file path printed in any pane — ./src/app.ts,
~/notes/todo.md, Multiplex/App.swift:120 — and a sheet names the host and
the resolved path; ▤ VIEW docks a read-only file viewer as a tab beside
that session. Or press + TAB ▸ File Viewer to open one rooted at the
pane's current directory. It moves like any tab (split it out beside the
terminal, MERGE it back) and never survives a relaunch — summoned, not
restored, like the viewport.

Inside: code with syntax highlighting (Swift, TS/JS, Rust, Python, Go,
C/C++, JSON, YAML, shell, and more), Markdown rendered as a document
(RAW one chip away), images, and — the point — git. The tree on the
right stands on its own screen: branch, +/− counts, letter badges
(M modified, A staged, U untracked, D deleted), and a CHANGED filter.
A modified file grows a SOURCE | DIFF pair; the ± counts in the tree
header open the whole working tree's diff, grouped per file.

Worth checking:
- Long-press a path an agent printed (with a :12 line suffix if you can) —
  the viewer must open scrolled to that line, highlighted.
- Paths that aren't paths must keep falling through to text selection:
  "warning:", $VAR/things, prose with spaces.
- In a repo, edit a file, open the viewer: the file wears M in the tree,
  DIFF shows the hunks (green adds, red deletes), CHANGED collapses the
  tree to what moved, and the ± chip opens the repo-wide diff.
- README.md renders as a document — headings, lists, tables, fenced code
  with highlighting. Links in it confirm through the same sheet as pane
  links; relative links (docs/x.md) navigate inside the viewer.
- A binary file must say BINARY and its size, never garbage; a huge file
  renders its head under a TRUNCATED banner.
- Split the ▤ tab into its own window beside the terminal, keep working,
  press REFRESH — tree badges and diffs follow your edits.
- Close the terminal that summoned it: the viewer keeps working (it holds
  its own connection). Relaunch the app: ▤ tabs must be gone.
- mosh hosts: the viewer works there too (it reads over SSH).
- iPhone: the tree is a drawer behind the TREE chip in the bottom rail.
- The tree hides what your editor hides (.git, .DS_Store and friends) —
  but .gitignore and other dotfiles stay visible, and opening a pressed
  path into a hidden folder still works.
- Open an image: it fits the screen; pinch to zoom (double-tap flips
  fit ↔ 2×), pan when zoomed, and the % chip bottom-right resets to fit.
- The viewer now follows the host on its own: with its tab frontmost it
  re-checks every ~5 seconds — edit a file in the session beside it and
  the open document, diff, tree badges, and ± counts catch up without
  touching REFRESH (which stays for forcing the issue). Deleting the
  open file shows FILE GONE rather than stale bytes.
- iPhone: + TAB > File Viewer now opens with the tree already out, so the
  first file is one tap; opening a pressed path still lands on the file.

KEYBOARD LOCK — hold the rail's keyboard key to keep the keyboard closed

On iPad/iPhone, hold the key rail's keyboard key (~half a second) and it
latches into a padlock: the software keyboard closes and terminal taps no
longer summon it — tap, scroll, and select freely while an agent runs. A
KEYBOARD LOCKED badge sits at the pane's top right the whole time. Press
the padlock key once to unlock and bring the keyboard straight back.

Worth checking:
- Lock with the keyboard open: it must dismiss immediately and the badge
  appear; tapping the terminal must NOT bring it back while locked.
- The rail's own keys (ESC/CTRL/TAB, arrows, symbols, TMUX) and a
  hardware keyboard must keep typing into the session while locked.
- Switch tabs and windows: the lock holds everywhere (it's one keyboard),
  and the badge rides whichever pane is on screen.
- Short-press the padlock: keyboard returns at once, badge gone.
- With a physical keyboard attached the slot shows the mic key as before —
  the lock only exists where a software keyboard could appear.
